Let's try Positron Assistant for the first time together, Positron Assistant is a built-in
AI chat and code helper inside of Positron, powered by large language models like Claude
and Copilot.
You get both chat and inline code suggestions, it's data science context aware, sees your
variables, data frames, plots, console sessions, and packages.
Step one is to just turn it on, go to the settings menu and enable the Positron Assistant.
From there you can connect to a provider, using Claude for chat or Copilot for autocomplete
and you'll see a new assistant pane ready for your first question.
Step two is just to ask it something.
Ask questions about what variables and data frames are in my workspace, show me a summary
of data frame or plot distribution, or any suggestions to clean up this data frame or
improve this plot.
You should use Positron Assistant for live context, as it knows your data, flows will
stay intact, you code, visualize, iterate, all without leaving Positron, and exploration
is made easy, beginners and pros both get dynamic help with cleaning, plotting, debugging,
and understanding.
Ask the model high-level questions, ask it to tweak your code, ask for visualizations
or refactoring suggestions.
Be sure to leave any questions in the comments below and follow along for more content like
this.